[MUSIC]
>> Joe Nelson: When the stuff is
really pure, often loops are reduce,
filter, or map.
If things aren't pure,
you have to worry about what it's doing.
You can't just always use it so happily.
In fact, there's another list thing, each.
But that's kind of the impure one
that shouldn't be in the triangle.
Do something stateful to each thing that
you see, rather than map which is like,
change it, pass it through
change it like you know purely.
So when you work with pure functions,
these are the probably most of
the loop things that you're gonna see.
And, in fact, we like to say if
you write loops, you get an F.
Because, no loops.
>> Joe Nelson: Okay, so
kind of reviewing the separations.
In general, phase one was to prepare you
to see that it's kind of like the basics.
The type of stuff that's gonna to feed
into what Brian shows you to write
really cool stuff.
So, the basics are keep the function
arguments explicit, separate input
from environment so you know exactly
what's going into the function.
Also, the inputs can
be provided over time.
So, separate a function from its.
Make it be whatever it needs to be so that
we could just throw stuff together and
compos or split it like you saw.
Don't be modifying outside things.
Or when you do, keep it very localized, so
there's one place that
does it in the teasers.
The teaser function was like both trying
to figure out how to shorten something and
updating the DOM.
It's better to have something it's like,
yeah, all I do is update the DOM.
And I'm composed, in fact, and a way to
think about it is you do your pure stuff,
and it's sandwiched in
between the impure stuff.
So your pure stuff in
the teasers was calculating,
okay, I've got a string of words.
What's a way to shorten it so
it's an appealing thing someone wants to
click into and it's not overwhelming?
And it's sandwiched between
reading the things in the DOM,
like seeing that they're there or
finding them, and putting them in, and
on the other side updating
the things in the DOM.
,if most of your program
is composing pure, pure,
pure, and
only at the end do you ever sandwich it,
then the things that appear are free to
combine a lot more easily and compose.
So, between the buns of the sandwich, you
could rearrange all the layers nicely and
freely.
You could throw a log statement in
between in your compose chain and
see how things are changing.
Even though it's impure,
it just has a the debugging technique.
>> Joe Nelson: Minus one,
so that makes me feel sad-
>> Off Camera 1: No, that was for
[CROSSTALK] [LAUGH]
>> Joe Nelson: Okay, and then try to
compose without using glue variables
like we saw with the error thing.
And if you do those things, you've omitted
a lot of needless words, and your code is
ready to enter from the silence to the
voyage that Brian's gonna to take you on.
So I wonder if there's
anything else we wanna cover?
It's 11:45.
>> Off Camera 1: Yeah, do you wanna
write some more compositions, or
just take questions?
Or, cuz people need to know this
before we go into the second part, or
you guys are going to be like we hate you.
[LAUGH]
>> Joe Nelson: Yeah, yeah.
>> Off Camera 2: I did have
a question on the challenge, too.
I actually wrote it originally
without the compose.
I just did a return contains, and
then I passed in,
as a second argument, was the names.
So, in other words,
I didn't do the compose.
So, what's good or bad?
I mean-
>> Joe Nelson: It's probably better.
You probably did a better imitation there.
>> Off Camera 1: Yeah, I think it's
a good example to be like, well,
compose works here, but if you have
to put arguments in weird spaces,
just write a function and
just use the normal stuff.
But, I mean, if we were,
yeah, I think we should write an extra
couple composes to show that, I mean,
one of the benefits of compose is
you don't have to name anything.
So, there's no ties to this
specific implementation.
We're just saying glue this
function with this function.
And you're kind of, without thinking about
it, being like writing this generic code
that's building up a little
functions into bigger functions.
If you, the second you start to write
function, and you start doing things in
there, you're writing, you're telling
JavaScript how to evaluate, do this first,
then do this, then do this, and
it can't be changed [INAUDIBLE].
You also end up writing,
making all these references to names and
having to name things.
And you might be doing things
that aren't other functions
that you're building
up new functions from.
You might just add one out of nowhere
instead of using our add function.
So, what it's doing is kind of forcing
a higher level declarative discipline.
And if you can't get it,
you might write readable code.
[LAUGH] Don't worry about it.
>> Off Camera 2: Well,
do you worry about performance, then?
Are you getting too many functions,
and does that,
as opposed to sometimes just doing it
in a straightforward, JavaScript way?
>> Joe Nelson: It's funny to think about,
to really think about performance and
what affects it in a web application.
It's so, probably not.
[INAUDIBLE] on your JavaScript.
Because huge network calls,
it'll like an eternity compared
to calling an extra function.
Or like choices about caching went wrong.
Or waiting for the server.
It's just,
I think it's good to think about it.
I would, for
a minor increase in efficiency,
I would not wanna make a major
increase in the complexity of my code.
Assuming that I found a nice way
to compose [INAUDIBLE] clean and
better example, too.
>> Off Camera 1: Yeah, what if we-
>> Joe Nelson: Should we make some
more compositions?
>> Off Camera 1: Yeah,
if we go mess with those authors some.
>> Joe Nelson: Yeah, let's see.
>> Joe Nelson: Okay,
what could we do with this thing?
If it's a,
>> Joe Nelson: Aside
from just plucking things out.
>> Off Camera 1: Yeah,
look into Scott and Michael for some cool-
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Off Camera 1: Functions to play with.
Maybe you could say, take one, right?
To take one of the articles,
and you cold compose that.
Take one article and then get started.
>> Joe Nelson: I see.
Take one article.
So, get the first title?
>> Off Camera 1: Yeah, and
composition working together.
>> Joe Nelson: Take, cool.
Sure.
I don't have to do a var.
I can just do it, compose.
>> Joe Nelson: Actually,
I'll do the other way around.
So, we wanna get the
>> Joe Nelson: The title.
>> Joe Nelson: So this whole function is
gonna get the first title of the thing.
>> Off Camera 1: I think so.
>> Joe Nelson: I think so, yeah.
>> Off Camera 1: [LAUGH]
>> Joe Nelson: Absolutely will,
except it's undefined.
>> Off Camera 1: I mean,
maybe they can tell us-
>> Joe Nelson: Maybe I did take
wrong [INAUDIBLE].
>> Off Camera 1: Wait,
yeah, check [INAUDIBLE].
>> Joe Nelson: All good.
>> Off Camera 1: _get, .get?
>> Joe Nelson: What is the,
I should actually go to the articles.
>> Off Camera 1: Yeah.
[LAUGH] I think it's the first one.
>> Joe Nelson: But
it's actually still an array.
>> Off Camera 1: I see.
So we get the head?
Dropped out in the-
>> Joe Nelson: If you
don't understand I could just do it
>> Off Camera 2: Was it like it's first
instead of a take?
>> Off Camera 1: Yeah, yeah, that's true.
>> Multiple: [LAUGH]
>> Off Camera 1: Why will I take that?
That is a same function.
>> Joe Nelson: So that's the same?
>> Multiple: Yeah.
>> Joe Nelson: That still seems to be like
it's an array with one thing in it.
>> Off Camera 1: No, it's an object.
>> Joe Nelson: Is it?
Object?
Okay.
>> Off Camera 1: Yeah,
let's do that ahead or-
>> Joe Nelson: Sure.
>> Joe Nelson: Cool, okay.
>> Multiple: [LAUGH]
>> Joe Nelson: I mean, this alternative,
I don't know if this is such
a cuz it'd be articles[0] dash-
>> Off Camera 1: Well, so the, but
the top one is, something else
to consider is the top one is,
if you're going through functions,
we can start to, it,
I'm gonna talk about in part two.
We can to compose contexts
like what if there was none?
So, if you try to get the head, and
there's nothing there, if we're doing,
if we're composing functions,
we're able to compose behaviors
like null checks and stuff.
So that'll-
>> Joe Nelson: That's true.
>> Off Camera 1: Get pretty wild.
If you do this bottom one, you're locked
into the, you're stuck, you're done.
You have to wrap that in an if not null.
If article is first, get a title.
>> Joe Nelson: Yeah, good point.
I can't say how many time I've [CROSSTALK]
>> Multiple: [LAUGH]
>> Joe Nelson: Something's null.
It's not in the thing and
if you stick something in between,
you'll be in a different
context which will show you.
>> Off Camera 1: So,
we're starting to do that, but
one of the benefits right here is
you're completely declarative.
You don't say how anything happens.
I guess the bottom one is
kinda declarative, too.
>> Joe Nelson: But I think it's important,
I think the biggest
thing is what you said.
This composes, and it composes in a way
that pure code can be lifted into
a container,
like you're gonna explain with.
A container can do null checks, so
you're kind of doesn't have to care.
It's just like I'm pretending everything's
perfect, but I'm in this container that
insulates me from nulls and stuff that
can happen and does other things.
>> Off Camera 1: It's gonna be exciting.
>> Joe Nelson: Yeah.
>> Multiple: [LAUGH]
>> Off Camera 3: There's a couple
questions from chat.
One was whether
currying is implemented in underscore or
a low dash, or if they need to use Ramba.
>> Joe Nelson: I think curry is in both
of them, that would be my gut instinct.
>> Off Camera 1: Yeah,
I think it's in both.
>> Joe Nelson: It's a pretty
standard thing.
But the thing is,
say that you choose to use underscore.
It gives you curry, but
the other functions it gives you
don't have there arguments and
a convenient order for you to be
>> Off Camera 1: Right.
>> Joe Nelson: So, but you get the curry.